The Joe Rogan experience. Oh,
you know what I did want to talk to you about or watched the social dilemma?
Jeez dude,
that's a must-see kids.
I heard it's depressing.
Oh, so real, so real, real life, Tom. What's in you.
Everything's going to be fine. Wear a mask. I live in communist, Russia, a mask.
Trust me, Gavin Newsome. His penis tastes delicious.
We're all going to be fine. We.
Are going to be fine. You think we exist on this plane and this plane only?
Ooh, that's heavy. No, no, because I've done a lot of drugs.
I think there's probably something else. I think there's something,
I think there's something else out there, but just unaccessible right now.
But this social dilemma makes me very concerned about the
future because all of these technologists and all of these people that have
invented all this stuff that now are very unhappy.
It's really fascinating to see them discussing their own creations.
And see outsiders are also technologists who didn't didn't invent these things,
but are seeing the patterns in these things and understand it from a really
educated perspective. They're they're saying this could lead to civil war.
Like people are getting more and more divided and it shows in the film how
social media has made people far more polarized,
far more divided than ever before the, the red and the blue and the, you know,
it's like, it's disturbing. It's like, it's the most.
Dangerous part of it. And it can't be corrected.
Well, there's a lot of dangerous parts about it, but the thought bubbles, the,
the fact that these people get in these,
these bubbles of thought where everybody around you thinks your way and
everybody who thinks a different way is the enemy. Yeah.
This is a really dangerous part of the reality that we live in today because
it's not what we anticipated.
I thought that the internet and the age of information and all that we're
experiencing right now would bring about an understanding in a nuanced
perspective in life, in all ways.
So you'd be able to see things from other people's perspectives more,
more easily, because it'd be more readily available.
And it would be more encouraged for you to seek out all this information,
but a bunch of factors that happened at the
same time, all have sort of made it worse than ever before.
There's social media and the divide that comes.
And this is where the social dilemma comes in place. Yeah.
There's a divide that comes about because of the way they've engineered these
algorithms, which is really disturbing.
So whatever you're into it finds those things and accentuates them because
it just wants you to stay on more. It wants you to engage more.
She wants you to pay attention to the things. Now are,
is your fear did a little bit of a study on this, a little bit of a test.
And he only YouTube puppies. That's all he would YouTube,
just YouTube puppies just, oh, just to see what happened.
And all YouTube would send him yeah. His puppies,
right? All they would all, they would show him all.
They would suggest his puppy.
So this idea that their engineering outrage is a little disingenuous,
because what they're really doing is finding what you're interested in.
And people have been shown to pay attention to what they disagree with
far more than what they agree with. So that's how.
I, them spits you. Things that you disagree with.
Exactly. Because you get engaged with that and you get angry, which is,
that was a part of the rage.
It was showing how things that people disagree with.
Things that make people upset, right?
Those are the things that people are much more likely to engage with.
And you're like, you liberals, or you. You racist. Everyone's racist, right?
It's like, it's this thing.
That is a part of being a person where you seek,
especially when you don't feel like you're really you're being heard, right.
When you're at home and you're sitting on the toilet and you're going through
Facebook and you see some about what the burn, the flag, you mother,
and you start,
you start making these messages is you're more likely to do that than
seeing some beautiful story about these parents that adopt this kid.
And they give them a home and he comes from a bad part of the world like that.
You're not going to go good way to go for you.
Let me write down all the amazing things about what you're doing is a terrible,
no you're going to, you can get mad. Or if you're on the left,
you're going to get mad because the wildfires are going to blame on Trump and
climate change, all these different things. And you.
Know, like, look, it gets your outrage going. Yeah.
I mean, so many people think Trump's responsible for the wildfires. Listen,
folks, those fires were going to happen,
regardless of who is president now,
whether or not he is putting in policies is going to protect people 10,
20 years from now. Right? That's a real argument,
but the fires that are going on right now are not because of Trump.
It takes a long time to turn that battleship. Absolutely. Well,
Google is better. Yeah. They're much better at it. Yeah. And this, I use,
uh, my apple, I have an apple phone and I have an Android phone.
My apple phone is my primary phone and I use my Android phone more to
around with anything, but I'm around with a few things on it.
And one of the things is how well it picks up your voice and how well it
transcribes it. So here's the argument, right?
Apple is much better with your privacy. They're much better with your privacy.
Like when you use apple maps, it's not sending your data to anyone. Right?
But it's one of the reasons why apple maps is not as good as Google maps or
better and sharing it. It's just better. They just it's,
they're getting data constantly from you.
They're getting data from all the other drivers. They're sharing that data.
They're compiling that data.
And they're also sending ads your way to profit off of this to make it
profitable. So because of that,
because Google is just sucking up data constantly,
they can provide you with better services.
So there they have an amazing search engine they have.
But that was one of the things about the social dilemma.
The search engine gives different results based on where you are, like say,
if you type to use an example, climate change,
climate change is it might say a hoax or climate
change is a terrible threat, depending on where you live.
Like you live in, right. It might give you one thing. But if you live in Waco,
Texas, it might give you another thing. Yeah.
And it's based on what it thinks you want to see.
That's crazy. It's not good. That's not good.
That's why reinforcing people's dumb ideas. That's why.
I use duck. Duck go, duck, duck go. Does not do any of that stuff. It also,
it gives you things, it's it doesn't send your data somewhere.
It protects your privacy.
So you put climate change is on duck, duck. No, I put chicks with.
[inaudible].
You put whatever you want it just, yeah. The results are not curated.
So it's just giving you the most applicable results for the things that you're
looking for.
But it's not doing it in a way where it's curating it for your own interests.
Like if you try to find things that are controversial and we've,
we've tried to find that on the podcast before where Jamie will Google something
and I'll know it to be correct, but Google will not show that it's correct.
Because maybe the correct answer is not politically correct.
So you have to go through several pages and maybe you even have to Google it in
a very specific way to get to the heart of the science behind what's wrong
with the consensus opinion, the consensus opinion might be wrong.
Like that's the case with a lot of nutrition things. It's the case of a lot of,
a lot of things regarding like anything controversial, anything where you,
where there's a political motive to sway the argument one way. It's so.
Amazing how deep you have to dive to cross-reference stuff to really
try and assemble a truthful opinion. It's so hard.
So with all this stuff, like, do you do the,
and you have all these people from Twitter and Google and stuff who were saying
like what we did or Facebook that was horrible.
And we really kind of eff things up.
Do they feel like they can also correct this problem?
I don't know if you can put the bow, the cap on the bottle.
And I don't know. I don't know if you can do that.
I don't know if they know it either because they didn't think it was going to
happen in the first time you remember Jack Dorsey was testifying.
I think it was before Congress. And, um, he was saying that 12 years ago,
when we created Twitter,
we had no idea that this was going to be a situation that we had to anticipate.
We know no one ever saw this coming.
And if you go back and see the early Twitter,
when you would remember you would do the app,
it would always show your name in front of every tweet. So it'd be like at Tom,
Papa is having pizza. Like you would say what you were doing.
It was really like how people would use Twitter, you know? Um,
but it was like not political. It was just fun. Yeah.
People would just like, no one knew what to do with it.
And then somewhere along the line,
people started figuring out how to get an argument. No.
It's so bad. We just always were ruined everything. It can be so great.
I remember when it first came out, it was like, wow,
there would probably never have been slavery if there had been Twitter because
people would have exposed it so early. And it just seemed so hopeful.
But of course all the scummy people get it and then just ruin it.
It makes me scummy too, because it makes people more polarized.
It makes people more aggressive in, um,
reinforcing their idea what the truth is and trying to stop other people.
And you're seeing so much suppression of other people's
opinions and expression today, which is so strange. Yeah. It's just,
it's one of the weirdest times ever to look at the way human beings communicate
because of the tension we were talking about this earlier,
we never really finished the thought, but you got Trump.
Then you got the pandemic and then you get the economic collapse.
You have all these things happening. So people are, they're desperate,
they're sad.
And then you've got looting and you've got the riots and you see get racial
tension. You've got violence. You've got this anti-police sentiment,
which also leads to more instability in the streets, more instability in,
in the cities and less safety and fear, fear, fear of, uh,
fear of police, fear of gangs, fear,
fear of Antifa, fear of white supremacists, fear of everything.
It's like all this fear and people arguing online
really literally addicted people. Yeah. People are addicts, right?
They're just as addicted as people who are gambling addicts,
just as addicted to people that are sex addicts,
they're addicted to Twitter and they're arguing,
they're mentally ill people and they're constantly engaging in conflict. Right?
And they're coming up on people's posts and you don't know that you're
interacting with mentally.
Ill people or, or people from other countries that are trying.
Assume you're interacting with mentally unwell people,
because almost everyone who's using it in that way.
Is it in one way or another mentally ill.
Or you put your phone in the drawer and you go to the park
and all of a sudden.
Every you get chops down because you want to defund the police.
Everything calms down and goes away. She goes.
You're not in, you're not living in this weird reality.
You're just living in, in real life and you're not participating in it.
That's what's.
We would all hope for the problem is there's so many people that are doing it
where they're doing it on Facebook or Twitter or arguing,
whatever things they're arguing about. It's,
it's spilling out into the real world, right? You're in.
The park being all Zen and all of a sudden, a flash mob shows up that.
Organized on Twitter. And you're like, what the hell is happening here?
I was all Zen him and it ago.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience are now free on Spotify. That's right.
They're free from September 1st is December 1st.
They're going to be available everywhere. But after December 1st,
they will only be available on Spotify, but they will be free.
That includes the video. The video will also be there. It'll also be free.
That's all we're asking you. Just go download Spotify much. Buh-bye.